>> Mike North: We're going to work with
IndexedDB, specifically idb a little bit.
So that we can go ahead and,
as our service worker's installing,
kind of preload our app
with at least the JSON data
that represents all of the grocery
images available to us.
And this is a great pattern if we
wanted to sort of allow the user to
have the experience that they
landed on based on the URL, right?
Load whatever they need to render there,
but in the background,
kinda get ready for
generalized use of this app, right?
So that even if there are API
endpoints we haven't hit yet,
maybe we can build an IndexedDB and
use those records to fuel
our app rather than relying on
like HTTP layer to drive our app.
>> Mike North: So let's get started.
>> Mike North: All right, so
the first thing we're gonna do,
I just have some notes here,
so I'll stay on track.
So I'm going to try to
shoot the moon here.
Go for the whole problem and
ultimately I'm gonna need
multiple fallback image URLs.
>> Mike North: Right, one per type.
And they're gonna look like,
>> Mike North:
localhost:3100/images/fallback-grocery.-
png.
So that's our generalized one and
we've got a bunch of them.
>> Mike North: So we've got grocery,
we've got bakery,
dairy,
>> Mike North: We've got
frozen, fruit, herbs,
>> Mike North: Meat and vegetables.
And if you were to look where
these images are located,
it's in the server/images folder.
These are a little bit different so it's
going to provide a better experience for
our users.
That's the story,
the motivation behind this exercise.
We can show a picture of a fruit
with a question mark instead of just
a grocery bag.
So ultimately, my static analysis is
telling me this is an unused variable.
Ultimately this will end up being the
unused variable we can get away from that.
That's how we will know we
fully made this transition.
So, the next thing I'm gonna
do is there are multiple
situations where I'm
gonna need this database.
I'm gonna need it when I
populate the database.
I'm gonna need it whenever
I make use of it,
so that I can use it to determine
what kind of fallback image I need.
So I'm just going to make a little
function that will open the database and
return it to me.
That way I can leverage
that code a couple times.
>> Mike North: And
now we need idb, this library.
>> Mike North: And here we can return
idb.open('groceryitem-store'), and
we'll open version 1.
There's our upgradeDb event, and in here,
I'm gonna kind of build a case switch,
but we're not gonna have multiple
versions we'll deal with.
This would be the starting point
that we'd build on top of.
>> Mike North: upgradeDb,
old version, right?
So this is the number of the previous
version of the database,
seen by the browser or 0 if it's new.
>> Mike North: So if it's new, we're
gonna do sort of our initial setup stuff.
And in this case it's gonna be
upgradeDb.createObjectStore('grocery-item-
s').
I'm giving these different
names deliberately so
we can tell what's the database and
what's the store.
We can actually move that up to this line.
Great, okay, we're done with this.
So now we can invoke this function and
what we'll get back is
an upgraded database.
It'll create one on the fly if we need to.
If it's a brand new empty database
that's created on the fly,
we'll add this object store.
We've got this little key path here.
So now as long as my objects that
I put into it, they have an ID,
we should be good to go.
You'll get complaints if you
don't define how the primary key
can be found on each record.
So the next thing I'm gonna do is create
a function that returns a promise
called the downloadGroceryItems.
It's not important really what
this promise resolves to.
It is just something that I'm going to
add to my list of things to wait for,
>> Mike North: In the install hook, right?
So this is not one of these fetch related
things where I have to make sure I return
a promise that resolves to a response.
It just needs to return a promise.
And in here,
I'm going to first open the database.
>> Mike North: And we get a database here
passed to the promise handler there.
And then once the database is open, I can
go and begin to fetch data from my API.
So I'll go back to the slide,
steal that URL.
>> Mike North: There we go, and we'll
do the typical thing we do with fetch.
>> Mike North: And what I expect here,
>> Mike North: Is
a property called data on
this JSON object I get.
And I'm going locally within the body
of this little call back here.
We'll just call those groceryItems.
What you're seeing here, it's like
a fancy destructured assignment and
naming at the same time.
Basically saying,
take the object I get back, reach in,
grab this data property
off of that object, and
make it available in this function here
as this local variable, groceryItems.
All right, so now I've got the JSON,
I've opened my database,
let's smash them together.
>> Mike North: So
we're gonna create a transaction,
tx is a common convention for that.
>> Mike North: So man,
I love Visual Studio code here.
So the second argument that we pass here.
The first argument you see,
it's the name of the store that
we're creating a transaction for.
So almost always,
you're gonna be working with one store but
you can see that optionally you can
provide multiple store names and
that will be a transaction that's
working with multiple things.
So the example of emptying the shopping
cart and creating an order,
that's a transaction
that touches two tables.
So that would be like a multi-store
transaction if we were doing it in
the browser.
The second argument here is
whether we're using a read and
write or read mode for this transaction.
So this kind of sets the rules for
what we can touch,
which stores we can touch, and
the kinds of operations we can do on them.
Then we're going to, sorry,
I've got some notes here.
So the first thing I wanna do is,
in the installation process here,
I'm gonna treat this kinda
like a pre cast assets.
Meaning that if I find something there,
like, every time a new service worker
installs, let's start from scratch and
repopulate this database.
Now if we had a million records or
something, number one, probably not a good
candidate for storing in the browser.
But if it were getting
complicated you might just wanna
be a little bit more thoughtful
about the way you handle it.
In this case,
we're not gonna worry too much.
>> Mike North: So we're gonna get
this objectStore and clear it.
Which, it returns a promise but
we're not too concerned with it.
Well, we'll chain to
the promise in a second.
This removes all of
the objects in this store.
>> Mike North: So
once the clearing is complete,
we can,
>> Mike North: So
we're basically going to go through all
of the grocery items that we found.
And turn each one into a put operation.
So we're gonna take our grocery-items and
we're gonna basically, for
n grocery-items, we're gonna create
n put operations into this database.
And here's how that would look at
a high level, groceryItems.map.
We've got one grocery item here.
>> Mike North: And we're gonna grab
that so we can create a new transaction.
>> Mike North: We're creating
a lot of transactions here.
Actually, you could do
something like this.
>> Mike North: Create a new transaction,
>> Mike North: And
we're going to map over.
>> Mike North: I can clean this up by
holding a reference to this grocery
item store.
>> Mike North: And we're gonna just
put that grocery item right in, and
these are relatively, these are flat
objects, they have an ID property.
So they're actually already ready
to just drop into index DB.
It doesn't need them to be flat, but
it does need that ID to be a top
level property on the object.
>> Mike North: So this will turn, this
map is a high order function on arrays,
and it takes the contents of an array and,
one by one, try to form the items,
and we've transformed an array of
JavaScript objects into promises.
Put returns a,
let me put it more in the center,
so put returns a promise, we can see it's
a promise that resolves to an IDBValidKey.
Whatever that means,
we're not concerned with it.
Really, the whole point of this function,
and our chaining of things together is,
we want the promise to
resolve when all is done.
We don't really care once we shove
stuff in there, we're done with it.
So if we return this, now we've got,
we'll call this the putPromises.
And they're all associated
with this one transaction.
I just made this change here,
I was associating it with
this wrong transaction here.
>> Mike North: So
now what we can do is we will, sorry,
let me make sure I haven't
made a mistake here,
groceryItem's clear,
I have a little error.
>> Mike North: There we go.
Okay, so
it's two transactions that work here,
and I've broken them apart for
a pretty obvious reason.
I'm dumping the table and now I'm
starting to fill it up bit by bit, and
it just makes more sense in my mind to
think of those as two separate things.
>> Mike North: So,
when the first transaction is completed,
we kind of set up the second transaction,
we've got these putPromises, and
now we're gonna say return
Promise all putPromises.
>> Mike North: And
last thing we need to do here,
I just made the same mistake twice,
is complete.
So this complete property,
that is where you have access
to the promise that resolves when
the transaction is complete.
So that's why here we're chaining against
complete, and here we're mapping and
we're ultimately returning complete,
so that essentially when all of these
promises resolve, we should be good.
Sorry, I'm halfway between
two approaches here.
Now we're all set.
>> Mike North: We can
actually do it this way.
All right, this make a lot more sense,
begin the transaction,
put end operations inside this
transaction, complete the transaction.
Trying to correct errors on the fly and
it requires a lot of brain
power [LAUGH] so great.
Let's operate on the assumption
that this works and
we'll go back to debug if necessary.
So we've already wired this
download grocery items thing up.
And I think this is a good
time to start the server and
just see if the database gets populated.
>> Mike North: So let's go here.
>> Mike North: Refresh.
>> Mike North: And
we'll look at our application tab.
Down on the left panel,
we'll look at IndexedDB.
And you can see we have a grocery
item store in there at version one.
And here's a list of grocery items,
looks good, looks good.
We have IDs, and here's the value,
these multi-property objects here.
So you can think of it like a key-value
store, I mean, it is a key-value store,
and the value is the document.
Why we would call this a NoSQL
database instead of a key-value store?
We have the ability to kind of query
against values and have indices.
And if you've used something like Redis
before or even local storage as a key
value store, really the key is the only
power you have for looking up objects.
And that's why we'd say this
is Definitely a database and
not just that simpler,
more primitive storage mechanism.
All right, so
this is step one of this exercise,
let's rounded it out in a step two.
So the bonus thing So in the event
that we have to fall
back on an image here,
we've got two situations where we're,
>> Mike North: Going for
this FALLBACK_IMAGE_URL.
And I'm jut gonna break
out a new function here.
>> Mike North: So you've got
a fallbackImageForRequest just so
we can reuse some logic here
>> Mike North: I'll save that for
later,
>> Mike North: And
we'll put the same thing down here.
>> Mike North: All right, so
now our job is given a request,
like if we were to uncomment this,
>> Mike North: We've
basically got exactly the same thing that
we've been working with this whole time.
If we refresh, we should see,
there's our fall back image.
But we wanna take into
account the URL here.
>> Mike North: So we're gonna grab
the path portion of the URL, and
we'll extract the itemId from it.
So they'll end up looking like this,
>> Mike North: Something like that.
So we're gonna take the path and
we're gonna get a substring.
>> Mike North: And we're gonna begin
with the last index of slash + 1.
And we're gonna end with
the last index of a period.
So basically,
we're trying to start here at 1,
go all the way until we hit
stopping short of the period.
And we'll get 123, and
let's wrap that all in a parseInt,
with a radix of 10.
So now we've got a number which is great,
because that's exactly what IndexDB needs.
And our job here, this function
here it's involved with fetch.
We always wanna make sure that writing
this in a way that they return those
promises that resolve to responses.
But we can start by opening the db,
we'll do it right here.
>> Mike North: So we'll open the db,
it's groceryItemDb,
and,
>> Mike North: We get the database and
then in here, what we're gonna do is,
>> Mike North: Create a new transaction,
>> Mike North: And we're gonna get itemId.
>> Mike North: So we can return that and
then we will chain here,
we're trying to keep
things linear if we can.
>> Mike North: So,
we've got a grocery item at this point.
It's gonna look just like that plain
JavaScript object that we put in.
>> Mike North: So at this point we've got
the category and now we can use the same
thing thing like this is the ultimate
annual back into sort of fetch land.
We're returning this promise
that resolves to response.
And instead of the fallback image url
here, I'm just gonna grab one of these,
we'll just build the string manually.
They're more graceful ways to do it,
but this work for us.
>> Mike North: And we'll substitute
this thing here with the category name.
>> Mike North: Something like that.
All right, let's see where we're at.
>> Mike North: Interesting,
>> Mike North: Let
me make sure everything's
working as it should.
So grocery items should get pre-cached.
>> Mike North: I think that's the problem,
fallback image URL,
we want to cache those.
Those aren't in the cache.
>> Mike North: So let's check the cache,
see if they're there, refresh, open it up.
It is the fallbackImages, great, so
now we have far more than just the one.
>> Mike North: And,
>> Mike North: That looks right,
let me just add a break
point here real quick.
>> Speaker 2: Those fallback images
are all the categories, right?
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: That's how that
associates with, yeah that stuff.
>> Mike North: So I'm just simply
using that to pre-fetch, right?
So that I go, did I say add all here for
fall back images,
I did fall back image URLs.
So I just want a break point right here,
we'll shake out this last issue,
whatever it happens to be.
>> Mike North: AVR service
workers still waiting and it is.
>> Mike North: I'll just
do update on reload.
>> Mike North: And okay, so
we have some different behavior here.
Let's see what's going on.
Transaction get is not a function,
I've made a little mistake here.
>> Mike North: So,
it's transaction.objectStore.
>> Mike North: So as you can see, there's
a serious multi-step process at work here.
A very powerful tool, but
a bit of a low-level API, there we go.
So now, instead of the generic fallback
image, we get a bread-specific
fallback image here, and if we've
got the banana moved or something.
Forget where the other
thing we deleted is, but
actually know the idea of the banana
one we can do it right away.
>> Mike North: So
there's our wheat one and here's fruit.
All right, so now we're using serious
imperative logic in a database, and
our last snapshot of the data itself
to have dynamic fallback images here.
And I hope you're seeing now,
we're not dealing with just a caching
layer that lets us have some logic
around caching, we can do a lot more.